What causes a steeper SML slope?
Higher levels of investor risk aversion
What reduces WACC?
If the market risk premium declines
What is the NPV method?
Is assumes that cash flows will be reinvested at the WACC
What is the IRR method?
It assumes reinvestment at the IRR
Operating expenses are?
Ongoing costs a company pays to run its basic business
What is the goal of finance management?
To make more money or add value to the owners of the firm
As rates increase, bond prices will ________. As debt increases, risk will _________.
Decrease, Increase
Premuim bond is?
Selling for higher than the face value of the bond
What is annuity?
Series of regular payments
Accounting insolveny is?
When companies liabilities exceeds its assets
Total gain or loss consists of?
Capital gain or loss plus any income you received
What is range?
The simplest measure of risk
What is (RM-RF)?
Market Risk premium
What is B(RM-RF)?
Risk Premium
Higher the risk equals?
Higher the reurn of investment
Debenture is what?
A bond without collateral
Face Value, Par Value, and Maturity Value all equal what?
$1000
Bearer bonds are?
Owner of the bonds
What is Par bond?
When you sell at par value
Discount bond is?
When the bond selles lesser than the par value
What does B stand for in Finance?
Beta of a stock
When a company borrows money from a bank or sells bonds, it is called?
Debt Finanacing
To get the operating cash flow, given the net income, we add back what?
Depreciation 
Maturity bonds are what kind of debt?
Long term
A note is what?
A loan less than 10 years
A bid price is?
What a customer is willing to pay
IRR is measured as a?
Percent
Can a firm spend its operating cash flow?
Yes
What is cost of debt?
The return the bank or bondholder demands on new borrowing
Finance is?
The art and science of managing wealth
Three main functions of a financial manager are?
Capital Budgeting, Capital Structure, and Working Capital Management
Probability Distribution must always add to?
One
What is the Volcker Rule?
Insured institutions may not engage in proprietary trading
Longing a stock is?
Buying a stock thinking it will appreciate
Shorting a stock is?
Buying an instrument to profit in a down market
Increase in interest rate has what affect on supply?
Increase in supply
Pecking Order is?
How mature companies finance their growth
Cedit unions are?
Nonprofit organizations 
Lagging economic indicatord happens?
After the economy changes
Lower GDP is?
Recession
A business that is owned by one person is called
A sole proprietorship
What is similar to a proprietorship except that there are two or more owners 
A partnership
What's the definition of liquidity
the speed and ease with which an asset can be converted to cash
The difference between a firm's current assets and its current liabilities is called
net working capital
The use of debt in a firm's capital structure is called
financial leverage
The true value of any asset is 
Its market value
What is the market value
the amount of cash we would get if we actually sold it
The firm's assets on the balance sheet are called
book values
The income statement equation is
revenues minus expenses equals income
The equation for earnings per share is
net income divided by total shares outstanding
The equations for dividends per share is
total dividends divided by total shares outstanding
Expenses charged against revenues that do not directly affect cash flow are called
non-cash items
An example of a non-cash item would be
Depreciation
What is marginal tax rate
the extra tax you would pay if you earned one more dollar
When you divide your tax bill by your taxable income that's called
your average tax rate
What are the three components that are involved in cash flow from assets
operating cash flow, capital spending, change in net working capital
The simple definition of operating cash flow is
Cash generated from a firm's normal business activities
When calculating ocf what are two things you don't want to include
interest and depreciation 
Can net capital spending be negative? 
Yes, this would be possible if the firm sold off more assets than it purchased. 
What is another name for cash flow from assets?
free cash flow
When you want to compare financial statement what are those types of statements called
common-size statements
What is the definition of common-size statements
a standardized financial statement presenting all  items in percentages terms. 
What are financial ratios?
relationships determined from a firm's financial information and used for comparison purposes
What is another name for quick ratio
acid test 
What is the equation for quick ratio
current assets minus inventory divided by current liabilities
What is the cash ratio?
Cash divided by current liabilities
What is the total debt ratio?
total assets minus total equity divided by total assets
how do you find receivables turnover?
sales divided by account receivable
To make the receivables turnover answer more understandable what do you have to do?
Take the receivables turnover and divide it by 365 to see how many days
How do we calculate ROE?
Profit margin times total asset turnover times Equity multiplier
What is the difference between ROA and ROE?
the reflection of the use of financial leverage
If you want to find out how much money you need to invest in order to have a certain amount in the future what formula do you have to use?
FV=PV*(1+i)^t
What is the financial topics are grouped into four main areas?
Corporate finance 2. Investments 3. Financial institutions 4. International finance
What is the process of planning and managing a firm’s long-term investments?
Capital budgeting
What is the mixture of debt and equity maintained by a firm?
Capital structure
What is a firm’s short-term assets and liabilities?
Working capital
What is a business owned by a single individual?
Sole proprietorship
What is a business formed by two or more individuals or entities?
Partnership
What is a business created as a distinct legal entity owned by one or more individuals or entities?
Corporation
The goal of financial management
Profit Maximization
General Financial Management Goal
Maximize the market value of the existing owners' equity
What is the possibility of conflict of interest between the owners and management of a firm?
Agency problem
What is the someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm?
Stakeholder
What is the financial statement showing a firm’s accounting value on a particular date?
Balance sheet
What is the current assets less current liabilities?
Networking capital
What is the common set of standards and procedures by which audited financial statements are prepared?
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
What is the financial statement summarizing a firm’s performance over a period of time?
Income statement
What is the expenses charged against revenues that do not directly affect cash flow, such as depreciation?
Noncash items
What is the total taxes paid divided by total taxable income?
Average tax rate
What is the amount of tax payable on the next dollar earned?
Marginal tax rate
What is the total of cash flow to creditors and cash flow to stockholders, consisting of the following: operating cash flow, capital spending, and change in networking capital?
Cash flow from assets
What is the cash generated from a firm’s normal business activities?
Operating cash flow
What is another name for cash flow from assets?
Free cash flow
What is a firm’s interest payments to creditors less net new borrowings?
Cash flow to creditors
What is the dividends paid out by a firm less net new equity raised?
Cash flow to stockholders
What is a standardized financial statement presenting all items in percentage terms, Balance sheet items are shown as a percentage of assets and income statement items as a percentage of sales?
common-size statement
