What is the difference between a call and put option?
A call owner has the right to buy, whereas the put owner has the right to sell.
How are you?
I am a finance only chatbot.
What color is the sky?
I am a finance only chatbot.
What is stock?
Stock is ownership in a corporation, and so has a residual claim on cash flow.
What is Quantitative Easing?
Federal Reserve open market purchases of various assets, which creates US dollars.
What are Eurodollars?
Dollar-denominated deposits abroad.
What is the euro?
The currency of the European Monetary Union.
What is the foremost reason for currency markets?
To facilitate international trade.
How are futures different from forwards?
Futures are standardized and traded on exchange.
What is the balance sheet identity?
Assets are defined as the sum of liabilities and stockholders' equity.
What does the balance sheet measure?
How a firm finances its assets.
Does the balance sheet measure over time?
No, the balance sheet is a snapshot in time.
What is a derivative?
A contract with a payoff dependent on some other asset or event.
What is a forward contract?
An agreement to buy or sell a specified quantity of something for a set price on a set date.
What is net income?
The profit of the firm which is available to shareholders.
What happens to net income?
It is either retained or paid as dividends.
What is operating cash flow?
It is EBIT plus Depreciation minus taxes.
What is an example of a non-cash expense?
Depreciation.
How do you calculate a stock's dividend yield?
Annualized dividends divided by the stock price.
What is the profit margin?
Net income divided by sales.
What does the profit margin measure?
A company's revenue and expenses, also known as its profitability.
What are agency costs?
Costs due to management not acting in shareholder interests.
What is the agency problem?
The idea that management may not act in shareholder interests.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize shareholder wealth.
What does capital structure mean?
The particular mix of debt and equity used to finance a firm's assets.
What is the capital stack?
It is another term for capital structure.
What is an arbitrage?
Loosely, it is earning a positive amount of money with no investment and no possibility of loss.
What is liquidity?
The ability to sell an asset quickly without dropping its price.
What causes the agency problem?
The separation of corporate ownership and control.
What is the differene between an American and European option?
The European option can only be exercised at expiration, whereas the American can be exercised at expiration or anytime prior.
What is another term for a derivative?
A contingent claim.
What programming languages are often used in finance?
The most common are python, C++, and R.
How many stock exchanges are there?
There are about 18 exchanges, though an order may be executed on one of the numerous off-exchange venues.
What is geometric Brownian motion?
A stochastic differential equation commonly used to model the change in a stock's price.
What is the Federal Reserve?
The monetary policy authority in the US.  The Fed also has other regulatory and research responsibilities.
What is money?
Anything that serves as a medium of exchange and store of value.
What does the term de novo mean?
It is a new bank.
How would you define liquidity?
The ability to sell an asset quickly without dropping its price.
What is the VIX?
It is a volatility index.
Can you trade the VIX?
Yes there are futures and option contracts on the VIX index.
What is a market order?
An order which specifies the number of shares to trade, but not the price.
What is a market buy order?
An order to buy a specified number of shares at whatever the best price is.
What is a market sell order?
An order to sell a specified number of shares at whatever the best price is.
What is a limit order?
An order which specifies both the number of shares to trade, and the price to trade them.
What is a limit buy order?
An order which specifies both the number of shares to buy, and the price to buy them.
What is a limit sell order?
An order which specifies both the number of shares to sell, and the price to sell them.
When would you use a limit order?
When market prices are changing rapidly, or there is little liquidity.
When would you use a market order?
When trading highly liquid stocks in stable markets.
What is a stop order?
An order to exit a position if you are losing a certain amount of money.
When do you use a stop buy order?
To place a stop on a short position.
When do you use a stop sell order?
To place a stop on a long position.
What is a stop limit order?
A stop order with a specific exit price.
Is using a stop limit order a good idea?
No, you may never exit your position.
What is the one true text editor?
Emacs is the one true editor.
Is vim a good text editor?
Yes, it is second only to emacs.
What is the ticker for crude oil on the NYMEX?
It is CL.
What text editor are you using right now?
I am using emacs.
Where is the delivery point for CL?
It is in Cushing Oklahoma.
What grade of crude oil is CL?
It is light and sweet crude.
For how many barrels is the CL contract?
For 1000 barrels.
How many gallons in a barrel?
There are 42 gallons in a barrel.
What is the ticker for natural gas on the NYMEX?
It is NG.
What is the delivery point for NG?
The delivery point is the Henry Hub in Louisiana.
How large is the NG contract on the NYMEX?
It is for 10000 MMBtu.
What are the delivery months for CL.
CL has a contract delivered every month.
What are the delivery months for NG.
NG has a contract delivered every month.
What is the ticker for the soybeans contract on the CBOT?
The ticker is ZS.
What does NYMEX stand for?
The New York Mercantile Exchange.
What does CBOT stand for?
The Chicago Board of Trade.
What does CBOE stand for?
The Chicago Board Options Exchange.
What is the crush spread?
It is a trade around the soybean refining margin.
What do you trade in the crush spread?
You trade soybeans, soymeal, and soy oil.
What are soybeans refined to?
Soybeans are refined into soymeal and soy oil.
What is crude oil refined to?
Crude oil is refined into gasoline and heating oil.
What is the crack spread?
It is a trade around the crude oil refining margin.
What do you trade in the crack spread?
You trade crude oil, gasoline, and heating oil.
On what exchange are soybeans traded?
They are traded on the CBOT.
What is the FIX/FAST Protocol?
It is a protocol to communicate with a stock or futures exchange.
When do you use a protecting put spread?
When you want to limit your downside on a long stock position.
When might you use a covered call spread?
To earn extra income from owning a stock.
What does the owner of a put option have?
The right to sell the stock at a specified price on or before expiration.
What is the implication of interest rate parity?
That each currency has only one risk-free rate.
What is the face value of US Treasury bond?
The face value is $1000.
What is stock?
Stock represents equity in a company.
What is equity?
Equity is ownership and a proportional residual claim on income.
What does ETF stand for?
It stands for Exchange Traded Fund.
What is the maturity for a US Treasury note?
The maturity is between one and ten years.
What is the maturity for a US Treasury bill?
The maturity is less than one year.
What is the maturity for a US Treasury bond?
The maturity is greater than ten years.
What is a debt security?
It is a promise to repay an amount loaned according to some schedule.
What is a zero coupon bond?
A bond which pays no coupons and is sold at a discount from par.
How often do US Treasury bonds pay interest?
They pay interest semiannually.
What does CEO stand for?
CEO stands for Chief Executive Officer.
Who oversees management on behalf of a company's shareholders?
The Board of Directors.
What is a drawback of operating a sole proprietorship?
There is unlimited liability for the owner.
What is a sole proprietorship?
A business owned and operated by an individual.
What is a benefit of the corporate form?
Limited liability for the owners.
What are some drawbacks of being a corporation?
Double taxation and the agency problem.
What currency is used in the United Kingdom?
The British pound.
What currency is used in Japan?
The Japanese yen.
What is the financial capital of the United States.
The financial capital is New York City.
What is the financial capital of the United Kingdom.
The financial capital is London.
What is the carry trade?
Borrowing in a low interest rate currency and lending in a high interest rate currency.
What do markets do?
They aggregate information and organize society.
Will markets work in all cases?
No, in many cases markets will fail.
What is a reason for market failure?
One reason is if there is excessive information asymmetry.
What roles do speculators play in financial markets?
They provide liquidity and assist in aggregating information into prices.
What is a benefit of investments?
Investments allow people to optimally time their consumption.
How does a company get the money to buy assets?
By selling equity and debt.
What is the value of equity?
The present value of all expected future dividends discounted at a risk-appropriate rate.
What is the value of debt?
The present value of all interest and principal payments discounted at a risk-appropriate rate.
What is a common non-cash deduction on the income statement?
Depreciation is a common non-cash deduction.
What is another non-cash deduction.
Amortization is another.
Why may you want to trade volatility indexes?
In order to hedge option portfolios.
How do we hedge out the changes in a stock's price from options on that stock?
We use the delta hedging procedure.
What does the Greek Rho measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the interest rate.
What does the Greek delta measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the stock price.
What does the Greek Vega measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the stock's volatility.
Is Vega a Greek letter?
Actually no.
What does the Greek theta measure?
The sensitivity of the option value to changes in the risk free rate.
What does the Greek Gamma measure?
The sensitivity of the option's delta to changes in the stock's price.
What is the practical implication of a large gamma value?
It means you have to delta hedge more often.
Does the Black-Scholes option pricing model allow volatility to change?
No, it assumes volatility is constant.
How is the weather?
I am a finance only assistant.
What are you?
A finance assistant.
How can we create option pricing models which allow for changing volatility?
If we can trade volatility, then we can use the replication approach.
What day is today?
I only answer finance questions.
What is the text editor of the future?
Emacs.
If the discount rate increases, then what happens to present values?
Present values decline.
If the discount rate increases, then what happens to future values?
Future values increase.
As time increases, what happens to the discount rate required to make some present value equal to some future value?
The discount rate declines.
What are some synonyms for discount rate?
Some synonyms are interest rate or required return.
What is an annuity?
A contract which pays a fixed amount, every period, for a fixed number of periods.
What is an perpetuity?
A contract which pays a fixed amount, every period, for an infinite number of periods.
What is the present value of a perpetuity?
It is the payment per period divided by the rate per period.
What is a repo?
It is a repurchase agreement.
How does a repo work?
The party entering the repo sells an asset with an agreement to repurchase it in the future.
What is the interest payment in a repo?
It is the difference in the sales and purchase prices.
Is a repo effectively a collateralized loan?
Yes, a repo is a short term loan with collateral.
What are some money market securities?
Some examples are repos, commercial paper, Treasury bills, and bankers' acceptances.
